- [Instructor] Reporting is one of the great benefits
of Apache Maven.
With the reporting structure,
you not only are able to generate documentation
about your project
but also documentation about the various aspects
of the build process.
Let's go back to our IDE
and open up the learning-maven-presidents
and then the pom file.
Now I want you to scroll down
to the reporting section.
And you will see the that I've only defined
one additional report.
And this is the Surefire Report.
This report provides information on your tests
as well as test coverage.
And you will see however that Maven has built
and support for a lot of reporting documentation
even without this report.
Now once again, we will spend a significant amount
of time actually looking at reporting.
But for now, let's just look at the basics.
To generate the report, let's jump back
into our terminal.
Once again we're going to go to our learning-maven-presidents,
and we're going to type maven clean package
just like we did before.
But now we're going to add a site command
onto this as well.
Now the reason that we're going to run
the package command here is so that we can get all
of the testing output, and the compilations done.
The site command actually would generate the documentation
for us.
Now once this command is done,
we need to navigate to the target site
and we're going to open up the index-dot-html file
and a browser.
So we're done.
We'll navigate to target, and then we're going to go to
the site directory.
And now I'm going to do an open on index-dot-html.
Now this opens up in my default browser,
which in this case is Chrome
and you'll see the very beginning, I have some information
about my project.
I've got when this was launched published,
the version of my project, and then the description
that came from my pom file.
So let's move around a little bit here
and take a look.
So on our project information,
we sort of have a hyperlinked page that gives us
all of the other reports that we can touch
that are by default part of the Maven site.
The about we've already looked at as the index page.
Now the plugin management is the plugins
that are available to Maven.
Now we didn't actually select any of these.
These all came for free with the Apache Maven.
When we click on the plugins,
we can look at some of the ones that we're using
and some of the ones that are available again
from Apache itself.
And then some things that we've configured
like the report plugins for Surefire.
Then there's this summary which gives us things
like the name, the description, any homepage
that we've specified on, anything about
our organization.
Specific details about the java version,
the type, the group ID and artifact ID.
Let's take a look at the project report section here.
You'll see that we've only have one list
and this is Surefire Report that we've specifically
had documented in our pom file.
Let's go ahead and click on that.
In the Surefire Report, you'll see that
we had one test that executed.
It executed with the success rate of 100%
and it took less than half a second.
There are no failures.
There's also a package list which gives us
all of the packages, and whether there were tests run
in each of those packages.
And then we get details about the group itself.
And all of the tests that we'll run for our group.
And this is just sort of how the Surefire Report
comes out.
And this is by default.
There are things you can do that sort of build
this up some more.
But this is just your default behavior.
But if you're publishing this to your management,
this starts to give them a way
to look at your project and know
that you're executing tests.
All of this simple report that came from a pom file.